# General Azure Security

## Azure Security Center

- To improve security of your resources and data centers.
- Quickly changing workloads
- Sophisticate security threats
- Azure Security Center helps address these challenges by assessing your environment for you and then it makes recommendation that you can follow for better to secure you resources.


## Azure Key Vault

- for storing secrets, keys and certificates and can also tightly control access to them.
  

## Azure Monitor Logs

- Collects data that fits into one of the two fundamental types:
	- Metrics
	- Logs
- The Logs in Azure Monitor can be used to perform complex analysis across data that's collected from many different sources.



## Azure Sentinel

- Azure Sentinel is a cloud-based security information event management solution that provides intelligent security analytics and threat intelligence across the enterprise
- It is an all-in-one solution for:
	- Alert detection
	- Threat visibility
	- Proactive hunting
	- Threat response



# Storage Security

- Azure Storage  Service Encryption
	- 256-BIT AES Encryption
	- All storage accounts, whether they are premium or standard, are encrypted without additional cost. 
- Shared Access Signatures
	- User Delegation SAS
		- A user delegation SAS, which applies to Blob storage only, is secured with Azure AD credentials and by the permissions specified for the SAS. 
	- Service SAS
		- A service SAS is secured with the storage account key and is used to delegate access to a resource in either Blob storage, Queue storage, Table storage, or Azure Files. It delegates access to a resource in just one of the services.
	- Account SAS
		- An account SAS is also secured with the storage account key. However, unlike a service SAS, it delegates access to resources in one or more of the storage services.
	- combination of Storage Resource URI + SAS Token
- Storage Account Keys
	- Storage Account keys are generated by Azure when you create a storage account.
	- 512-BITS
	- Use these keys to authorize access to data that resides in your storage account via Shared Key authorization
	- Should be rotate and regenerate your keys on a regular basis
	- Azure Keys Vault can be use to automate rotate keys.
- Storage Analytics
	- Is a service that performs logging and provides metadata for storage accounts.
	- 20TB limit on the amount of the data storage analytics can store.


# Database Security

- Azure SQL Firewall Rules

- Azure SQL Always Encrypted
	- Designed to protect sensitive data that are stored in an Azure SQL Database or even in a traditional SQL Server database
	- Clients can encrypt sensitive data inside the client applications without revealing the encryption keys to the SQL Server
- Azure SQL Transparent Data Encryption(TDE)
	- TDE is used to protect Azure SQL Databases, Azure SQL managed instances, and Azure Synapse from malicious offline activities.
	- 

- Azure SQL Database Auditing

# Dynamic Data Masking


# Identity and Access Management

- Role-based access control(RBAC)

- Azure Active Directory(AD)
	- It's intended for IT Admins, App Developers, and for subscribers.
	  
- Azure Active Directory B2B

-  Azure Active Directory B2C

- Azure Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS)
- Azure Multi-Factor Authentication
	- two step verification


# Azure Networking Security

- Network Security Groups
- Azure VPN Gateway
- Azure ExpressRoute
- Azure Firewall
- Application Firewall
- Azure DDoS Protection
- Virtual Network Service Endpoints
